---
title: Auth-Machine
date: 2025-05-22T16:21:16.119009124+02:00
weight: 20
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/opencloud-eu/opencloud
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/services/auth-machine
geekdocFilePath: README.md
geekdocCollapseSection: true
---

<!-- Do not edit this file, it is autogenerated. Edit the service README.md instead -->

## Abstract


The OpenCloud Auth Machine is used for interservice communication when using user impersonation.

OpenCloud uses serveral authentication services for different use cases. All services that start with `auth-` are part of the authentication service family. Each member authenticates requests with different scopes. As of now, these services exist:
  -   `auth-app` handles authentication of external 3rd party apps
  -   `auth-basic` handles basic authentication
  -   `auth-bearer` handles oidc authentication
  -   `auth-machine` handles interservice authentication when a user is impersonated
  -   `auth-service` handles interservice authentication when using service accounts


## Table of Contents

* [User Impersonation](#user-impersonation)
* [Deprecation](#deprecation)
* [Example Yaml Config](#example-yaml-config)

## User Impersonation

When one OpenCloud service is trying to talk to other OpenCloud services, it needs to authenticate itself. To do so, it will impersonate a user using the `auth-machine` service. It will then act on behalf of this user. Any action will show up as action of this specific user, which gets visible when e.g. logged in the audit log.

## Deprecation

With the upcoming `auth-service` service, the `auth-machine` service will be used less frequently and is probably a candidate for deprecation.
## Example Yaml Config
```
{{< include file="services/_includes/auth-machine-config-example.yaml"  language="yaml" >}}

{{< include file="services/_includes/auth-machine_configvars.md" >}}

